Hynny'n bwysig eich bod chi'n gweld y ddau arifau yma.
Rydyn ni'n gwybod bod angen drwy Llyfrgellau,
Llyfrgellau, Rhyngwladau, Llyfrgellau,
Llyfrgellau, Llyfrgellau, Llyfrgellau, Llyfrgellau,
Llyfrgellau.
Morning, everybody.
We're going to give folks like another minute or so to trickle in, but it's great to see you all.
Thanks for waking up super early.
We'll get started in 60 seconds.
All right.
Good morning, everybody.
We're going to go ahead and get started.
Before I dive into my stuff, I'm going to hand the mic over to Rachel real quick.
Thanks, everybody.
I just wanted to let everyone know, if you want to ask questions today in the lounge room,
if you go to the Positron Lounge channel on the Discord, I'm going to put the slide open over there,
and so you can ask questions there either with your name or anonymously.
If it's with your name, you can also just raise your hand here in the room,
and we can answer questions that way too, but only in the Positron Lounge channel on the Discord.
Thanks for that.
Awesome.
Thanks, Rachel.
Welcome, everybody, to our very first Learning Center Lounge area.
It's good to see everyone here so early in the morning.
It's great to see all the virtual attendees as well.
Hello.
My name is Ryan Johnson, and today we're going to talk about Positron
and doing some really cool AI-powered stuff inside of it.
Now, if I've not met you already, and I see a lot of familiar faces already,
but again, my name's Ryan.
I'm a data science advisor here at Posit.
Part of my role is just to make sure that you all know about all the cool tools that we're creating here at Posit,
our open source tools, our professional tools, as well as the IDEs that we're creating.
That's going to be the real focus for today.
As a quick show of hands, who here has used Positron already?
Okay.
Maybe I can probably figure this out, but maybe entertain me.
Who here has never used Positron before?
Raise your hand.
All right.
We're actually like 50-50, so that's pretty cool.
If you've never used Positron before, maybe you have, and you're just a little curious about the history of Positron,
what is Positron?
You can give it a lot of definitions, but what I'm going to call it is an AI-ready, multilingual IDE
specific for data science.
For those that have never used Positron before, I'm going to maybe take a guess that you've probably used RStudio before.
This is an IDE that's been around for about 15 years, probably more than that.
It's our baby.
It's the first tool that we ever created here at Posit, and we love it.
The reason why our users tend to love it is that it really is tailored to R, and it's very much optimized for data science.
We'll talk more about that here in a second.
There's other great IDEs out there.
Who here has used VS Code before?
All right.
Most hands.
Very cool.
VS Code is a great all-purpose editor.
If you're using R, if you're using Python, if you're using Julia, HTML, JavaScript, you can probably find a home in VS Code.
It is multilingual right out of the box.
It's also extremely customizable, so you can do whatever you want.
There's that rich ecosystem of extensions where you can just make VS Code your own personal flavor.
In more recent versions of VS Code, it's also AI-equipped, so things like GitHub Copilot come with it right out of the box.
When designing Positron, we essentially wanted to take the best of both worlds.
We looked at RStudio, and we're like, what do data scientists really like about RStudio?
They really like that variables pane in the top right, so they can see the variables they're creating.
They can interact with the data they have stored in memory.
They also really like that plots pane in the bottom right, by default, so you can actually see your plots.
You can see your tables and interact with the insets that you're creating.
With VS Code, people just love that it's extremely customizable.
Again, multilingual, AI-equipped.
We took the best of both worlds, and we made Positron.
That's what it looks like over there on the right-hand side.
This is a much larger view.
If you've never seen Positron before, hello, Positron.
This is what it looks like right out of the box.
Again, if you're a VS Code user, you're going to immediately see some stuff that looks pretty familiar.
If you're an RStudio user, you'll also see some other stuff that's familiar.
If this is the first time you're seeing Positron, there's a really easy way to just break it down into four different components.
On the left-hand side over here, we're going to call this your manage area.
This is where you can do things like read in files.
You can have your extensions, and manage them over here on the left-hand side.
You can do version control.
All that stuff is over here on the left-hand side.
As you begin writing code, maybe you're creating things like R scripts, Python scripts, Shiny applications, core to a document.
That's all done right up here in the top middle.
This is your writing zone where you can actually edit and write your source code.
As you're writing your code, you're obviously going to want to run it at some point.
That's all done down here at the bottom.
It's kind of hard to see.
Let me remove that box.
This is a console right here, very similar to RStudio.
What's also really cool about Positron, again, it is multilingual.
It's probably hard to see.
It's a little small on your screen here.
At the very top, you can see in this screenshot, we're running R version 4.4.
If I wanted to, I could click this little button in the top right and easily switch over to Python.
That will switch over my console to Python as well.
It's extremely easy to switch from R and Python.
You can have an R and Python session running at the exact same time.
Then the last part of Positron, which is what we pretty much adopted from RStudio,
is your understand portion of the IDE.
This is when you start creating variables, storing data sets, interacting with data sets, plots, tables,
Shiny apps, rendered core to a document.
You can literally interact with them and see them directly in the Positron IDE off on the right side here.
That's Positron, but today's focus is really about highlighting some of the really cool AI LLM integrations with Positron.
The first one that we're going to introduce you to is something called Positron Assistant.
This is an AI client that's actually built directly into Positron.
It's nothing you have to add additionally.
It's right there.
You can start using it.
I also want to give a small note here that this is still a feature that's in preview.
You can certainly test it out, but it's not quite ready for production just yet.
Within Positron, you'll see on the left-hand sidebar, there's a little robot face.
That's how you can access Positron Assistant.
What can you do with Positron Assistant?
You can do a lot.
I'm showing, again, a screenshot over here on the right-hand side.
You'll see there's a little text box on the bottom.
That's where you can just literally interact with Positron Assistant.
Ask it questions about your data, your analyses, and it will get a response.
You can chat that way.
You can also leverage in-line code edits, which I'll demonstrate here in a little bit.
Something that I'll talk a little bit more about in a second is that Positron Assistant
and pretty much all the AI features we have in Positron are model-agnostic,
meaning we're not going to force you to say,
hey, you need to use ChatTPT or you have to use Gemini.
Chances are your team may only approve certain tools.
We want to make sure that you can bring those tools to Positron and use them.
Positron is not in the business of creating our own LLMs.
We just want to make sure you can use the LLMs that you can use in Positron right out of the box.
Lastly, Positron and Positron Assistant are designed for data science.
The way that Positron Assistant does this is pretty cool, and it's also a little creepy.
Here I have the Positron IDE, and I put purposely some very creepy eyes on it.
When you interact with Positron Assistant, it can actually see your Positron environment.
It can know that, hey, you have this Quarto document open,
or, hey, you have some variables stored in memory.
I can see the plots that you've created.
I also know what code you're in in your console and what error messages or output that you got.
That way, when you make suggestions or questions to Positron Assistant,
typically the suggestions you get and the responses just tend to work immediately,
because it automatically knows everything it needs to know about your environment.
I'm going to hopefully demonstrate that functionality here in a second.
That's one way to interact with Positron Assistant.
Again, using this little chat box in the bottom left.
There is another way. This is known as inline code suggestions.
If you have a Shiny application open or a Quarto document or a Python script or a FastAPI,
you can typically hit Command-I if you're on Mac or Control-I if you're on a Windows machine.
You can open up this little chat assistant window where you can make edits directly to your source code that way.
Again, we'll be demonstrating that here in a second.
This is going back to that mentality of Positron.
Again, we are not in the model creation space.
We just want to make sure that you can bring your own models into Positron and Positron Assistant.
Currently right now, Anthropics is really just the main model that we support,
and we are actively testing out other models.
As Positron Assistant continues to evolve, we hope to support additional models in the future.
Positron Assistant is one tool that we're going to talk about in this short demo.
There's another one, and this is called DataBot.
I'm curious. Anybody here try out DataBot?
Okay, we've got a few hands. That's cool.
The vast majority have not. That's expected.
It's a really new tool. It's a very exciting tool.
Honestly, it's probably one of the more fun tools that I've ever interacted with.
Unlike Positron Assistant that's built into Positron,
DataBot is actually an extension.
If you're a VS Code user, you'll know that there's a very rich library of extensions you can import
into your Positron session to customize your development space.
DataBot is, in fact, an extension.
The way that DataBot works is pretty cool.
We've coined this internally, called the WHERE loop.
It's really designed for exploratory data analysis.
You get a brand new data set thrown at you,
and typically the first thing you want to do is just understand what that data is,
what it's telling you, maybe extract some insights.
That's where DataBot comes into play.
If you have a new data set, you can open up DataBot,
and you can just say, hey, DataBot, tell me about this data.
What it's going to do is kick off this WHERE loop.
The first thing you'll do is write R or Python code on your behalf,
again, with your approval.
This is also something that, again, the way we interact with these LLMs is all code-based,
because we know that code is the most auditable way to interact with LLMs.
DataBot's going to start writing some R or Python code,
and it will execute it immediately.
It'll actually analyze those results,
and then regroup and offer some additional suggestions.
Then you can give it the next instruction,
and this WHERE loop will just go around and around and around in circles
until you are confident you know everything you need to know about this data set.
For the rest of the session today, we're going to do a demo,
and I'm going to have a lot of audience participation.
Don't be shy, because I'm going to ask a few questions here.
This is Positron.
Just to orient you all,
again, we have our little manage sidebar here on the left-hand side.
I have open in the main center,
this is a Quarto document with some R code inside of it.
I have my console down here, ready to run some code.
You'll see, again, the variables pane, the plots pane,
the things that we love about RStudio right here within Positron.
Again, you can see I am running R in the very top right corner,
but if I wanted to, I could easily switch over to a different version of R,
or even a different version of Python,
which is a really powerful feature of Positron.
Then over here on the left-hand side,
there's a little robot face.
That is Positron Assistant.
We can open it up, and we can always drag,
just like in RStudio and VS Code,
open it up a little bit so we can see it in all of its glory.
What we're going to do first
is I'm just going to run through this Quarto document.
If you've never seen Quarto before,
they typically have these QMD extensions,
very similar to R Markdown in a lot of ways,
but Quarto is also designed to support R, Python, and other languages,
like Julia, Observable,
so it's a bit more of a language-agnostic tool.
This Quarto document is not particularly complex.
It's only about 40 or so lines of code,
and these gray boxes are code cells, or code chunks,
with some actual R code inside of it.
We're going to step through this,
and we're actually going to hit some error messages,
and we're going to use Positron Assistant to help us debug these errors.
The first thing that we're going to do,
we have the tidyverse package,
we have the scales package,
we're just going to load some packages into our environment,
and then we're going to import a dataset from TidyTuesday.
Who here is familiar with TidyTuesday?
All right, about half or so.
TidyTuesday, actually, I think I have a...
Let me see if I can open this up here.
TidyTuesday is this GitHub repository,
and every Tuesday, we release,
well, the TidyTuesday folks release a new dataset
that you can just play around with.
If I scroll down a little bit further here,
it goes all the way back to 2018,
so it's a pretty rich repository of data,
and the data is extremely diverse,
going from palm trees to Pixar films.
We've got Pokemon in there, which is pretty cool.
It's a great, if you want to do some exploratory data analysis,
if you're teaching and you would need to leverage some data,
this can be a really helpful resource as well.
All right, so let me just get those slides back up,
come back into Positron.
So what we're going to do is,
I'm going to specifically use this TidyTuesday R package
to import a dataset from the week of July 1st of this year.
And then I'm going to extract,
so this dataset is actually looking at gas prices over time,
and I'm going to extract a specific dataset called gas prices.
So let's go ahead and run this code cell.
I click Run Cell at the very top here.
So I do that, you'll see it runs all the code down here in the console,
and then in the top right corner,
you can see the environment variables that have been created,
and again, I can literally come up here and interact with them,
which is a really great feature of Positron.
Now we have some data loaded from TidyTuesday.
Now what we're going to do next is just create a plot.
We're going to use a very popular ggplot package
to create a really nice visualization.
So let's go ahead and run it.
And I told you we're getting an error message, and here it is.
At the very, very bottom of your screen,
so apologies if this was a little too low here,
but we get an error message which isn't particularly helpful.
It's telling us that there's no applicable method,
for filter, I guess that's kind of pointing us in the right direction,
but if you're new to R, or Python, or Positron,
you see this error message, you're going to be like,
I don't know what to do now.
So what we're going to do is use Positron Assistant
to help us debug what's going on here.
Now again, Positron Assistant is aware of my environment,
and if you look down here in the very, very bottom left,
you're going to notice that it already has some context about my environment,
like, what R version am I running? 4.4.
And you'll also see it automatically picked up the Quotra document
that's in my source pane here in the top right.
So that is some of the context that's going to be used
when I interact with Positron Assistant.
I don't have to do anything particularly fancy here.
I can literally just say, help me fix the error.
That's it.
Now if you were using something like ChatGPT, or Gemini, or Anthropic,
and you're using the web chat interface,
you would probably have to, like, okay, let me grab all of my code,
and I'm going to copy and paste it over, which is a huge pain in the butt.
With Positron Assistant, you don't have to do that,
because it already is aware of your context.
So let's go ahead and run this,
and let's see what Positron Assistant does for us.
You can see it's used one reference at the very top here.
So it's letting you know it's using the Quotra document
to help inform its response.
And we just read through the message here.
So the error occurs because gas prices is null.
Okay, that was unexpected.
So what it actually did here, which is pretty cool,
is that it knows about my Quotra document,
but at the same time, it was looking at my environment variables.
It sees this Tuesday data set over here, my environment,
but it also sees this gas prices, but it's set to null.
That's something I didn't actually pick up.
So something weird is going on here,
and you'll notice that Positron Assistant, right on this line right here,
is like, hey, you actually extracted this incorrectly.
So instead of gas prices here on line 15,
it really needs to be weekly gas prices.
So again, this is how Positron Assistant knows about your environment
and can start making really helpful suggestions.
And then, as a little bonus, it actually said,
hey, I actually found some other errors in your code.
So it certainly makes you feel good about your development.
But it's saying, okay, you used labels, it should be labs,
and then date, you're using capital D here for date,
but it should be a lowercase d.
And then at the very bottom here, you have an entire code snippet
that if I wanted to, I could run it directly within Positron Assistant.
You'll see these little icons above here.
So you can copy it, you can copy it into a new script,
or what I like to do is the second icon over,
you can apply an editor.
So I'm going to go ahead and click on it,
and I'm going to add it to my QMD document that I currently have open.
And it'll take just a couple seconds here,
but it's going to give us a diff,
something where we can actually see the changes it's suggesting,
we can approve them, we can reject them,
it gives you a lot of control.
So anything you see in red here are going to be suggestions
that Positron Assistant's like, okay, we no longer need this line,
and the green stuff are going to be the suggestions that it suggested here.
So you can go one by one and either approve them or reject them,
but if it looks good to you,
and I think Positron Assistant's doing a good job here,
we can just keep it all.
So let me go ahead and keep it,
and now we have a revised script here,
and let's go ahead and run it.
And there we go.
So now if we look down here,
we can see our beautiful plot down here in the bottom right,
which I just minimized.
There we go.
And just like our studio, you can drag these dividers here.
You can also pop it out, so if you want to, just click here.
Actually, I'll do this one.
All right, and we can see our beautiful plot.
This is looking at gas prices over time on the x-axis,
which I think looks really good so far.
And then again, at the top right here, we can see the environment variables.
Gas prices is no longer null,
and we can actually interact with this data set.
So if you click this little icon off to the right,
we get the really, really handy data viewer within Positron.
So if you've never seen this tool before,
it's similar to what you'll see in our studio,
but it is just insanely feature-rich.
So you can see what columns are in your data set.
You can learn about all the various metrics,
like a quick little glimpse into the various columns here.
There's also, you'll see a little icon here
to let you know what percent of the data is actually missing.
So this is a really, really awesome tool for exploring your data.
Okay, so I've created a cool plot here.
I think it looks pretty nice,
but I think we can make it look even better.
So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to put my cursor
on the lines of code where we generate this plot,
and I'm going to hit Command-I on my keyboard.
And this opens up this window here
where we can interact with Positron Assistant
in line with the rest of our code.
So I'm going to go ahead and ask you all,
for some brave volunteer,
look at that plot.
I know it's really tiny in the bottom right,
but what's something you would like to do to this plot
to make it better or worse?
I don't know. Do whatever you want.
Does anyone give me a suggestion?
Yeah.
Yeah, okay, let's do it.
Change the X-axis labels so they are vertical.
Actually, I'm going to do a fix here.
I'm going to do the same thing here.
I am using a bleeding edge of Positron here,
so I want to make sure you see all the cool new features.
All right, so there it goes.
And right there, it just automatically went really fast.
But you'll notice down here at the bottom in green,
that is what it's suggesting.
We could accept it.
We could close it and reject it.
What you can also do here is
we can just rerun this code cell
with that inline still there
and see what the results are giving us.
All right, there we go.
Down here at the very bottom.
Again, I'll make my plot a little bit bigger.
You can now see the labels are straight up and down.
All right, and that's how easy.
So I can accept it, and we are good to go.
Anyone have any other suggestions
they want to make to this plot?
Yeah, let's try it.
So, I'll come in here.
Again, I'll do Command-I,
and I'll say remove the background grid.
I'm going to throw in another one here.
Actually, let me do this.
I'm going to say remove the background grid
and add a trend line.
Make the trend line...
purple.
Not too much.
The positronic system is pretty smart,
and we'll know where it needs to make those edits.
I think it might be helpful to put it in the general area
of where you're trying to make the edit,
but for the most part, it's pretty smart,
and we'll know where to add these edits.
All right, so let's go ahead and try this one out
and see what we get.
All right, so it looks like it made some suggestions.
Let's go ahead and run it and see what it looks like.
Uh-oh, got an error message.
That's okay, because how can we debug error messages?
We can use positronic system.
So, let me go ahead and accept this,
and I'm going to say,
back down here in the bottom left,
hey, I got an error.
Can you fix this?
All right, give it a few seconds here.
Well, now it doesn't want to behave for me.
Curses of the live demo, but that's okay.
But hopefully you all can understand now
how positronic system, with just some natural language,
you can really dramatically improve
the data science, your plotting.
You can do a lot more with positronic system,
and I encourage folks to play around with it,
because it's really cool.
But for the sake of time,
I do want to demonstrate data bot,
because this tool is insanely cool.
So, I'm going to go ahead and just restart my R session,
which you can do down here in the bottom right.
Just restart R.
It's going to clear your plots,
clear your environment variables.
I'm going to close out of this specific script,
and open up another one.
And this script is extremely complex.
It's got two lines of code.
So, what we're going to do here,
is I'm going to, again, ask for another volunteer.
I'm going to load this package,
and on this line, on line three,
we're essentially going to import a data set
from TidyTuesday that I've never seen,
you all have probably never seen.
So, I want someone to just give me a random year
from 2018 to now.
Any year.
2020.
Okay.
And someone give me a week.
23.
Perfect.
Alright, let's go ahead and run this code,
and let's see what we get.
Hey, we're going to be analyzing marbles.
Alright, how exciting is that?
So, we have this marbles data set,
you can see marbles.csv at the very bottom.
It's actually living in this Tuesday,
Tuesday data variable in my environment.
And, I don't know anything about this data.
And so, we're going to use DataBot to help us out.
So, I'm going to open up DataBot,
which is an extension in Positron.
So, I'll do open DataBot,
and it looks something like this.
I'm going to go ahead and just clean up my windows a little bit,
so you all can see DataBot in all of its glory.
Alright, so.
We have this Tuesday data in our environment,
and this is DataBot, which again,
is perfect for exploratory data analysis.
I'm going to go ahead and kick off this analysis
by just saying,
help me explore the Tuesday data.
Let's let it run.
Hi, I'm DataBot.
And there we go.
The first thing that's going to happen
is DataBot always wants to make sure
that you stay in control.
So, if you're okay with DataBot running R
or Python code on your behalf,
you can allow once,
or you can always allow.
So, I'm going to go ahead and click always allow,
and we're going to let DataBot work its magic.
So, again, it's running all this R code for me.
Alright, DataBot is extremely positive.
It'll always give you really happy messages,
which I enjoy.
Alright, so it's still working.
It's still analyzing.
Alright, excellent.
You have a good understanding of your Tuesday data
marble racing data set.
So, again, I have never seen this data set before,
but we have 256 marble racing records
from Jelly's marble run.
I don't know if anyone's familiar with that,
but I'm certainly not.
We have 16 different teams, races,
some key findings.
So, letting you know there's some missing values.
But then also what DataBot does
is it provides some suggestions.
Like, hey, where do you want to go next?
So, we could show me the fastest
and slowest marble times overall.
Which teams perform best?
And I know it might be a little small on your screen,
but I want you all to just take a look
at some of these suggestions.
Anybody feel strongly about one suggestion
or something else?
What do you all want to do next?
Visualize.
Not surprising.
That one's always very fun.
We're going to create a visualization
showing team performance over time.
So, I can click on this
and just tell DataBot to do it.
Alright, so it's going to go ahead
and write some text,
and then it's going to start running some R code for us.
Alright, it sees the results.
I can see the qualifiers,
shorter races.
Give it a few more seconds
and see if it creates some cool plots for us.
I'm going to make my screen a little bit smaller
because you can see the plot was just a little squished.
A lot of the plots aren't going to be super beautiful.
I mean, DataBot can actually create
some really awesome plots.
I know this is an issue with the inline plot,
or the line plot.
So, it's cool because, again,
it can see your code,
it can see the plots that it's creating,
and it can continue to work through it.
So, let me just keep running through here.
Alright.
Key insights from the visualization.
So, time-based chart shows dramatic differences
between qualifiers.
There's fast,
and then there's long endurance races.
I am so confused about this Marbles dataset
and what's going on here.
But, again, DataBot is trying its best
to help us out here.
Season one rankings.
So, the savage speedsters.
They seem to have won season one
for these Marble races,
which is pretty cool.
Just for the sake of time,
because we only have about four minutes left here,
again, the whole idea here is that
you can keep going.
Keep learning about your data.
You can create visualizations.
You can have it run some statistics on your data.
It can do a lot of stuff.
But, when you're done with your analyses,
you might want to just document what you did.
And, DataBot has a really cool feature
where you can do forward slash and say report.
And, it will create a quarter document
summarizing your analysis.
So, it's going to go ahead and say,
like, I'll be happy to create one for you.
It's going to give you a proposed outline.
And, if you're happy with it,
it'll actually create it for you.
So, I'll say, yes, that looks great.
Yes, yeah.
For this one, I am using Anthropic CloudForce on it.
You can see in the very bottom down here.
Alright?
And, if you look right here,
it's actively creating my quarter document,
summarizing the results that we did.
Alright, this may take a little bit,
because we did a lot of cool things.
But, just for the sake of time here,
just to do a quick recap,
again, Positron, this is just an awesome tool
that we're insanely excited about.
Optimized for data science,
as we talked about.
Multilingual, supports R, Python today.
It's designed to support other languages in the future.
So, we expect Positron to be around
for a very, very long time.
It's LLM flexible.
Again, we're not going to force you
to use one model versus another.
We want to make sure you can bring your own model.
With Positron Assistant and Databyte,
it was designed to make just working
in your projects easier,
creating files super easy,
like we did with that quarter document.
And then, faster, exploratory data analysis
with Databyte.
So, with that, I am happy to take any questions.
Yes, question there.
Yep, so, what you saw,
and I know it's a little squished here
on the left-hand side,
but this is still Databyte over here.
All I did was say, report.
That's it.
But I can then give it more context
and say, like, create a super simple report,
or something like that,
with like 200 lines,
or exclude that analysis.
You have some customization
over that report as well.
Yeah.
Bring your own model,
kind of thing.
Hi, Keith.
How we actually do it at Posit
is we do it at Fedron.
Yeah.
Pretty far along requirements.
It's pretty set up for it.
It's really cool.
This is my running Posit
locally on my laptop.
An API.
These are some experimental models
right now that we're testing out.
And add in.
Right.
Yeah.
Ryan, when people ask a question,
can you repeat it
so people virtually can hear it too?
That's okay.
Yeah, great question.
So the model's about
if any model performs better than others.
I will say that in terms of
we are pretty impressed
with how it performs.
Okay.
So we're always
familiar with Couch's work
where he does a lot of testing.
So we're always on the outlook
for the next.
His name is Simon Couch.
He has a lot of open source packages
for kind of
having models go, you know,
enter the auction.
I just want to make sure
I ask a few questions
that are coming in virtually as well.
So in the Positron Lounge channel
and Discord,
Jeff had asked a question
and it was,
was the star highlight
indicating the line with the error
of Positron assistant extension feature
or just Positron out of the box?
Was the star highlight
indicating the line with the error
of Positron assistant extension feature
or just Positron out of the box?
Oh, okay.
I might have to tap into Jenny
for this question
because I know this is
a relatively new feature, I think.
Let me clean up some of my stuff
and see if I can
at least show you
Let me clean up some of my stuff
and see if I can
at least just replicate.
I'm not sure how I actually got it going.
Yeah.
Jenny, do you know
what they're referring to?
I did see it on my end.
Again, this is a very
bleeding edge of Positron.
I'm not entirely sure
I know what that feature is.
Yeah.
Oh, there it is.
Okay.
I think I actually,
I think this is what they're referring to
right here on line 22.
It's probably a little small
but there's a little star
right there
and if I click on it
it looks like it's gonna
do some cool stuff.
I have not tested out this feature
so this is also very exciting to me.
This looks like it's using
GitHub Copilot out of the box
which also is supported
within Positron.
I think we have a
oh yeah, we have the
other mic too.
Okay.
Got it.
Now I'll try my best
to kind of moderate too.
Yeah, question.
Mm-hmm.
Yep.
It's a really great question.
So the question's about
data security
and using LLMs.
If you work on sensitive data
like is it okay to use
Positron Assistant?
Is it okay to use Data Bot?
Again, we are not
building any models
at Posit.
We are not consuming your data.
It is a bring your own
model mentality.
So we would hope that
your team internally
who's done the homework
to know like hey,
we can approve Gemiini,
we can approve ChatGBT
because that's what we
know we can do internally
and then you can just
bring that to Positron.
But again,
it is a large language model.
You are making requests
to an API
so it is something
to be aware of.
Again, if other folks
on the Positron team
are here as well,
if there's any other
auditing features I'm unaware of
but again, it is just
mostly a bring your own
model mentality.
That hopefully your team
has done the homework
and has approved internally.
There's also,
I should say,
I don't think it's
available currently
but there are ways
where you can
interact with models
that run all on-prem.
So you can do something
like Obama and interact
with Positron that way
so you're never actually
reaching to an external API.
Everything is staying in-house.
That's a great question.
We'll do this one right here.
For Data Bot,
given some sort of
like background setting
or context for exploring
data, right?
Sometimes,
you need help
brainstorming ideas
of what questions to ask
and what to explore.
Can you,
not train the model,
but can you give it
that context of like,
oh, you're a healthcare data
master guru
or something like that?
Yeah, great question.
So the question is,
you can use Data Bot
right out of the box
and you can see
it works pretty well
but you may need to
customize it a little bit more
based on your data,
based on what you're doing.
I believe there is a file.
I think we call it
like LLM.txt
which is something that
Data Bot and Positron Assistant
will actually consume
when it first boots up.
And it's a way to add
additional prompt messaging
to tailor how Data Bot
and how Positron works
out of the box.
So if you need to do
any additional tailoring to it
and kind of do some more
prompt engineering
for those tools,
you can do that
within Positron Assistant.
Again, I'm not entirely sure
what that file is called.
I want to say it's like LLM.txt.
It's something like that.
It's a great question.
I'll do it in the back left.
That's per session.
So this is my own
personal Positron.
I've been using Data Bot
on it for a long time now
and every single time
it'll ask me.
And again, I did...
To repeat the question,
it was that always
are you okay with
Data Bot running R
and Python code?
Do you need to approve that?
That happens every single time
you open up a Positron
or Data Bot session.
Even if you've interacted
with it in the past
in the same environment.
Yep?
Mm-hmm.
Before that,
when you get somebody
on a dataset
and say, okay,
I've got to give an ADA on this,
you end up in different spots
depending on if you do
what you're doing
and what the data is like.
Is it more or less deterministic
to have a Data Bot
system
for a real sample question?
Is that how it starts out
or is it...
I'm not really sure I get it.
Yeah, it's a great question.
So to summarize the question,
Data Bot is an extremely
exploratory data analysis tool
and there is a high likelihood
that you may have one dataset
and if two people analyze it,
you might, I wouldn't say
get different results,
but you may just go down
different avenues.
Maybe someone's going to look at
correlations in the data
and other people are going to do
some more visualizations.
So it is very much
who's driving the analysis
and where you go from there
and what you're hoping to learn.
I would hope that if people
set out with the same goal
and are using Data Bot
that they're going to get
to the same results.
But, you know, it is an LLM.
These are inherently chaos machines
so there may be a little bit of
just fluctuations there.
But, yeah, that's my
hopefully philosophical answer.
It's a good question.
Yeah.
Okay.
I'm going to try and ask
a few more questions.
They're coming in in Discord
so let me know
what the audio is now.
My microphone just
messed it up for you.
But the question was,
when will it be possible
to use custom OpenAI APIs
or GitHub Copilot
for the Positron Assistant?
Is that something that will be announced
during the conference?
It's a good question.
I certainly don't want to speak
on behalf of our Positron
project manager.
I would probably say that
if you all see Tom Mock,
I'm sure many of you
know Tom Mock around.
He's the product manager
for Positron.
We have a bunch,
an entire engineering team
of Positron
and those that work
on Positron Assistant
are here as well.
They may be able to provide
more of like the roadmap
for Positron Assistant
and what's coming to it.
All I can say for right now
it's in preview support
so it's there.
You can use it
and try it out
and have fun with it
but, you know,
we'd probably hold off
on doing any production work
in Positron Assistant
for right now
and that also applies to
like what models
are going to come to
Positron Assistant
in the future.
So it's still very much
an active development.
Good?
Question?
Is there MCP support?
Okay.
The question is,
is there MCP support?
I want to say yes
but I don't know confidently.
Jenny or anyone else here?
Yeah, again,
I think all of that
is pretty good.
Like, you can use
tools today
in Positron Assistant
but exactly
what I'm going to say
for them,
I'm pretty confident
that they're going to
come to Positron
in the future.
Yeah.
But also,
I'm very happy
to ask a lot of
these questions
in Slido
for the keynote
that's about to happen.
It's going to land
on Jonathan McPherson
and you'll get them,
you'll get much better answers,
you know,
within the next hour.
And I'll also say that
this is going to be
like a little bit
of a teaser
for the keynote
that's about to happen
but I know later on
here in the Learning Center
we're going to have
Winston Chang
who's the creator
of Positron
and he's going to be
presenting
and we're going to have
Winston Chang
who's the creator
of DataBy
who can probably do
a much better job
answering these questions
than I can
and other folks
on the Positron Assistant
side will be here as well
can help address
these questions.
But my goal is
I'll just hopefully
get you excited
about these tools
and using them
for your AI stuff
and data science stuff.
I know we're sticking around
for Positron Q&A a bit
but I wanted to give people
a chance
if you want to run out
and get coffee
or just hang out
in the hallway
before the keynote
you're welcome
to get up whenever you want
but we're going to stick around
and answer some more questions.
There's a lot of questions
on the Discord too.
I realize we've got it
scheduled though.
Okay.
Gotcha.
So another question
was from
Christy in Slido
and it's for the AI Assistant
that Ryan just talked about.
I know he said...